Button updated variations (#1287)
ni/nimble: packages/nimble-components/src/button/specs/button-visual-states.md

# Nimble-Button New Visual Designs Implementation

## Problem Statement

The Visual Design spec for Nimble buttons now includes primary button states `primary` and `primary-accent` that aren't implemented in the nimble-button component yet.

## Links To Relevant Work Items and Reference Material

[Nimble Issue #663: Adopt nimble-button visual designs for states primary, quiet, and loud](https://github.com/ni/nimble/issues/663)

[Figma Spec](https://www.figma.com/file/PO9mFOu5BCl8aJvFchEeuN/Nimble_Components?type=design&node-id=1295-77205)

## Implementation / Design

There are three possible values for `appearance-variant` on a button: `default`, `primary`, and `primary-accent`, each with its own color scheme based on the UI theme.
`primary` and `primary-accent` states of buttons are primary buttons, which can be used together up to 3 times on a page.

> The `primary` button can be used when there is a conflict with color and its context.

Reviewer: I think by the time we get to capturing these recommendations in user-facing documentation, we'll want to be a lot more assertive (I realize you got these from Brandon's comments in Figma). Based on the discussion yesterday I think we should start with something more like this:

```suggestion
The `primary` button should be the default choice when one button needs to be emphasized.
```

The `primary-accent` button can be used in situations where a button needs to have the most prominent eye-catching approach, or when there is a lack of color.

Ghost buttons will not have `primary` or `primary-accent` states.
Outline and Block buttons in the Color UI will not have a `primary-accent` state, as this has been declared as not recommended for this type of background.

These limitations will be included in the description of `appearance-variant`, and if their values are selected, the button will change to the `default` value for `appearance-variant`.

> The current `appearance-variant` attribute will be used to hold these new states, as its previous implementation purpose is no longer used.

Reviewer 2: It would be good to add a sentence here about continuing to use the `appearance-variant` attribute with a valid value of `primary` means that this will not be a backwards-compatibility breaking change.

Maybe something like:
_Existing instances of `primary` buttons will automatically use the new `primary` button styling with no modifications required._

Only the `nimble-button` and `nimble-anchor-button` components will have the new visual design states.

-   Does the design follow an existing design in this codebase or FAST?
    -   Yes, this follows exisiting button design- only the button colors are changed.
-   Does the design align with web standards like web components, ARIA, etc?
    -   Yes
-   Does the design create new requirements on clients or break any APIs?
    -   Possible breaking change in styling, as the previous style of the `primary` state used in `appearance-variant` will be replaced with the new styling
-   How does the design affect testing, documentation, performance, security, etc?
    -   New Chromatic testing for updated styles / states.

## Alternative Implementations / Designs

> Can the new button states be placed in the appearance-variant attribute, or should a new attribute be created for this?

Reviewer: When listing alternatives, instead of a question it's best to phrase it more like a proposal along with an explanation of why that proposal was rejected. So something like: "We considered configuring these states via a new attribute but elected to use `appearance-variant` because ..."

I think it would also be good to mention that we considered swapping the green one to be called `primary` and the grey one to be secondary, but decided that the grey one was the default choice so should have the shorter name and should be the one that existing primary buttons migrate to.

# Nimble-Button New Visual Designs Implementation

## Problem Statement

The Visual Design spec for Nimble buttons now includes primary button states `primary` and `primary-accent` that aren't implemented in the nimble-button component yet.

## Links To Relevant Work Items and Reference Material

[Nimble Issue #663: Adopt nimble-button visual designs for states primary, quiet, and loud](https://github.com/ni/nimble/issues/663)

[Figma Spec](https://www.figma.com/file/PO9mFOu5BCl8aJvFchEeuN/Nimble_Components?type=design&node-id=1295-77205)

## Implementation / Design

There are three possible values for `appearance-variant` on a button: `default`, `primary`, and `primary-accent`, each with its own color scheme based on the UI theme.
`primary` and `primary-accent` states of buttons are primary buttons, which can be used together up to 3 times on a page.

The `primary` button should be the default choice when one button needs to be emphasized.

> The `primary-accent` button can be used in situations where a button needs to have the most prominent eye-catching approach, or when there is a lack of color.

Reviewer 3: I think it would be nice to have visual examples of when we think it would be appropriate to use the `primary-accent` variant (and when it would not).

Author: Brandon's spec in Figma has examples for these, do you think I should make note of this at the beginning of the Implementation / Design section, or should I attach an image within the spec? I think the former would be better, so we don't have to upload an image to the nimble files.

Reviewer 3: Hmmm...I'm struggling with this. Ultimately, I'd like nimble users to be able to quickly access the UX guidance for when to use certain style variants. This HLD isn't necessarily the right place for that, and instead should likely be surfaced in the storybook of the button. Given that, I think I'm okay with it as-is.

Only the `nimble-button` and `nimble-anchor-button` components will have the new visual design states.

-   Does the design follow an existing design in this codebase or FAST?
    -   Yes, this follows exisiting button design, only the button colors are changed.
-   Does the design align with web standards like web components, ARIA, etc?
    -   Yes
-   Does the design create new requirements on clients or break any APIs?
    -   Possible breaking change in styling, as the previous style of the `primary` state used in `appearance-variant` will be replaced with the new styling
-   How does the design affect testing, documentation, performance, security, etc?
    -   New Chromatic testing for updated styles / states.

## Alternative Implementations / Designs

We considered configuring these states via a new attribute but elected to use `appearance-variant` because its previous implementation is no longer used.

> We also considered calling the green button (Referencing Light UI) `primary` and the gray button (Referencing Light UI) `primary-accent`, but decided that calling the gray button (Referencing Light UI) `primary` made more sense. This is because it is used more often than `primary-accent`, and should be what the previous `primary` style changes to after the implementation of the new button designs.

Reviewer 4: I think the major alternate proposal was the terms primary and secondary. Also primary loud and primary quiet.

```suggestion
We also considered calling the green button (Referencing Light UI) `primary` / `primary-loud` and the gray button (Referencing Light UI) `secondary` / `primary-quiet`, but decided that calling the gray button (Referencing Light UI) `primary` made more sense. This is because the clarified gray button design usage guidelines state it is used more often than the green button, and should be what the previous `primary` style changes to after the implementation of the new button designs.
```
